One important node about all these DOM traversal techniques here by the way - it's super important to
be aware of them
and as I mentioned, for example if you want the first list item for unordered list and you have the unordered
list selected anyways, it might be best to just use first element child to get access to the list item
than to run a brand new query with query selector, both for performance reasons but also save some
code. Here, it also makes sense because a list item is pretty guaranteed to always be a child of an unordered
list and therefore even if you later go to your HTML code and you change things around, it's to be expected
that this relation between unordered list and list item will be the same.
So if you have code where you select the first element child on an unordered list, it will probably always
be a list item. That might not be true for your entire page,
let's say here in this example page, we write some js code and for that, I'll clear that old code which
I don't really need here
and I select my unordered list by reaching out to document body
and then here in document body, in the end it's of course the sibling of this header, right?
So I could reach out to a first element child which is the header, because in my body, this first element
child is the header and then based on that,
so once I got the header selected, I could take the next sibling because that will be the unordered list.
So here on the first element child which is the header, we could now call next element sibling,
so that would work because this here up to this point, this selects the header,
so on the header object, we can of course call next element sibling to get access to the next element
sibling which is our unordered list.
So now if we want to get the first li, I can of course say ul first element child and if I console
log first li here and we save that and we reload this page, go to the console and reload,
we see that works.
The problem with that is, for one this is a bit hard to read.
If I'm reading your code, it's not immediately obvious for me that you are selecting an unordered list
here.
Sure, I can tell by this constant name but if you're picking a different name here, it gets hard and this
code might be simply difficult to understand because I have to look at the HTML code to see what you're
doing there,
so that's one downside. The bigger downside is that here, maybe as you work on this app, at some point
of time you decide oh, I need an extra section element here, a section tag and you move your unordered
list into this section.
Now if you do that and you don't adjust your app.js file which is easy to overlook, then you might
get unexpected behaviours in your app because now if we reload, we of course get the unordered list
selected here and not the first list item anymore because we didn't adjust the selection code and we
select the header and then its next element sibling which now no longer is the unordered list but which
is this section.
So if we then select the first element child of the sibling of the header, that's not the first list item
anymore but the unordered list because the sibling of the header was the section, the first child is
this unordered list.
So using these DOM traversal properties can be very powerful but you should do it with care,
use it in cases where it's likely that the relation you're traversing will stay the same, even if you move
code around, list items will always been in an unordered list. In cases where this can't be guaranteed, carefully
check your js code and adjust it if you adjusted the HTML code and also of course,
don't be shy to use the query methods,
they're not bad or anything like that. Just because this could yield a better performance does not mean
that the other approach yields horrible performance, you'll not even feel the difference.
Just try to be smart regarding what you use and that is also something that will come with experience,
there also is no strict wrong or right,
it's important to know both and in cases where the relation is always the same, DOM traversal properties
like this one can be nice for general selection things, like generally selecting an unordered list. Using
query selector might be better than trying to do that by traversing the DOM but that's just a general
hint or just a thought
I wanted to put out there to make sure that you are able to write good code that doesn't suddenly and
unexpectedly break.